Overview of web desing and website personalities

Web design ingredients i'll learn about
1. Typography  2. Colors   3. Images/Illustrations 4. Icons
5. Shadows  6. Border-radius 7. Whitespace 8. Viaual Hierarchy
9. User Experience   10. Components/Layout


Overview of Website personalities
1. Serious/Elegant: For luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden or pastel colors, and big high-quality images.

2. Minimalist/Simple: Focuses on the essential text content, using small or medium-sized sans-serif black text, lines and few images and icons.

3. Plain/neutral: Design that gets out of the way by using neutral and small tyoefaces and a very structured layout. Common in big corporations E.g. Micrisoft

4. Bold/Confident: Makes an impact, by featuring big and bold typography, paired with confident use of big and bright colored blocks e.g. endplan

5. Calm/Peaceful: For products and services tha care, transmitted by calming pastel colors, soft serif headings, and matching images/illustrations. e.g. Octave

6. Startup/Upbeat: Widely used in startups, featuring medium-sized sans-serif typefaces, light-grey text and backgrounds, and rounded elements. e.g. Capsule

7. Playful/Fun: Colourful and round designs, fueled by creative elements like hand-drawn icons or illustrations, animations, and fun language.

WEB DESIGN RULES #1: Typography

Typography is the art and technique of arranging type to make written language legible, readable and appealing when displayed.

SERIF VS SANS-SERIF

Serif typeface

- Creates a traditional / classical look and feel 
- Conveys trustworthiness
- Good for long text (Article / Magazine)

SANS-SERIF
- Modern look and feel
- Clean and simple 
- Easier to choose for beginner designers

RULES ON Typography

1. Use only good and polular typefaces and play it safe. E.g. 
SANS-SERIF(Inter, Open Sans, Roboto, Montserrat, Work Sans and Lato) 
SERIF(Merriweather, Aleo, Playfair Display, Cormorant, Cardo and Lora) 

2. It's okay to ue just one typeface per page! If you want more, limit to 2 typefaces

3. Choose the right typeface according to your website personality.

4. Use good font sizes and weights. When choosing font-sizes, limit choices! Use a "type scale" tool or other pre-defined range.

5. Use a font size BTW 16px and 32px for "normal text". 
we




